Triolet:
Rondel
Jean Froissart (1337-1404)
Love, love, what wilt thou with this heart of mine?

Naught see I fixed or sure in thee!
I do not know thee,–nor what deeds are thine:
Love, love, what will though with this heart of mine?
Shall I be mute, or vows with prayers combine?

Ye who are blessed in loving, tell it me:
Love, love, what wilt thou with this heart of mine?
Naught see I permanent or sure in thee!

How Great My Grief
Thomas Hardy (1840-1928)
How great my grief, my joys how few,

Since first it was my fate to know thee!
- Have the slow years not brought to view
How great my grief, my joys how few,
Nor memory shaped old times anew,
Nor loving-kindness helped to show thee
How great my grief, my joys how few,
Since first it was my fate to know thee?

Terza Rima:
From Second Satire
Sir Thomas Wyatt (1503-42)
My mother’s maids, when they did sew and spin,

They sang sometimes a song of the field mouse,
That for because their livelihood was but so thin
Would needs go seek her townish sister’s house.

She thought herself endured to much pain:
The stormy blasts her cave so sore did souse...

Reduced Circumstances
Harvey Stanbrough (1954– )
He wasn’t always stretched that way, you know

strained through that fine sieve and powdered out
into polite society, a mote
in someone else’s eye. The guy trained hard,

compressed himself into the various molds
others thought he’d fit. Nobody bothered
to show they cared–to try to add three days

back into his week or put July
back into his year–they just smiled,
used him for their purposes, the last

of which was as the subject of some brief
but witty poem, and nobody knew
or wished to know the worst, most violent

effect: His circumstances were reduced
until he merely sat with folded hands.


Sestina:
Sir Philip Sidney, ‘Ye Goatherd Gods’.

Ye goatherd gods, that love the grassy mountains,
Ye nymphs which haunt the springs in pleasant valleys,
Ye satyrs joyed with free and quiet forests,
Vouchsafe your silent ears to plaining music,
Which to my woes gives still an early morning,
And draws the dolor on till weary evening.

Rudyard Kipling, ‘Sestina of the Tramp-Royal’.

Speakin’ in general, I ’ave tried ’em all—
The ’appy roads that take you o’er the world.
Speakin’ in general, I ’ave found them good
For such as cannot use one bed too long,
But must get ’ence, the same as I ’ave done,
An’ go observin’ matters till they die